# Moisture-monitor

To develop a smart irrigation system to provide irrigation system which is automatic for the plants which help in saving water and money. The main objective is to apply the system for improvement of health of the soil and hence the plant via sensors. Appropriate soil water level is a necessary pre-requisite for optimum plant growth. Also, water being an essential element for life sustenance, there is the necessity to avoid its undue usage. Irrigation is a dominant consumer of water. This calls for the need to regulate water supply for irrigation purposes. Fields should neither be over-irrigated nor under-irrigated. In order to replace expensive controllers in current available systems, the Arduino Uno will be used in this project as it is an affordable microcontroller. The Arduino Uno can be programmed to analyse some signals from sensors such as moisture, temperature, and rain. A pump is used to pump the fertilizer and water into the irrigation system. The use of easily available components reduces the manufacturing and maintenance costs. This makes the proposed system to be an economical, appropriate and a low maintenance solution for applications, especially in rural areas and for small scale agriculturists. This research work enhanced to help the small-scale cultivators and will be increase the yield of the crops then will increase government economy

Existing Method

There are multiple ways to irrigate. Research has backed numerous effective application strategies. One approach to getting plants the moisture they need is by sending water directly to the roots with a drip irrigation system or a subsurface drip irrigation system. Another method of irrigating involves long steel arms and sprinkler nozzles and pivots, usually electrically, around a center base to reach the entire field. 
